sql-statement: calibrate resource support workload (#13270)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md

# `CALIBRATE RESOURCE`

The `CALIBRATE RESOURCE` statement is used to estimate and output the ['Request Unit (RU)`](/tidb-resource-control#what-is-request-unit-ru) capacity of the current cluster. TiDB provides two methods for estimation:

> - Method 1: view the capacity within a specified time window depending on the actual workload. The following constraints apply to improve the accuracy of the estimation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Method 1: estimate the capacity based on the actual workload during a specified time window. The following constraints apply to improve the accuracy of the estimation:
```

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
CalibrateResourceStmt ::= 'CALIBRATE' 'RESOURCE' WorkloadOption

WorkloadOption ::=
( 'WORKLOAD' ('TPCC' | 'OLTP_READ_WRITE' | 'OLTP_READ_ONLY' | 'OLTP_WRITE_ONLY') )
| ( 'START_TIME' 'TIMESTAMP' ('DURATION' stringLit | 'END_TIME' 'TIMESTAMP')?)?

```

## Privileges

> To execute this command, you need the following configuration and privileges:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To execute this command, make sure that the following requirements are met:
```

- You have enabled [`tidb_enable_resource_control`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_resource_control-new-in-v660).

> - You have `SUPER` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` privilege.
> - You have the `SELECT` privilege for all tables in the `METRICS_SCHEMA` schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The user has `SUPER` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` privilege.
- The user has the `SELECT` privilege for all tables in the `METRICS_SCHEMA` schema.
```

> ## Parameters

Author: ```suggestion
## Estimation methods
```

> ## Parameters

Author: ```suggestion
## Estimation methods
```

> ## Estimation methods

Author: ```suggestion
## Methods for estimating capacity 
```

TiDB provides two methods for estimation:

### Estimate capacity based on actual workload

> If your application is already running online, or you can run actual business tests, it is recommended to use the actual workload over a period of time to estimate the total capacity. Observe the following constraints to improve the accuracy of the estimation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your application is already running in a production environment, or you can run actual business tests, it is recommended to use the actual workload over a period of time to estimate the total capacity. To improve the accuracy of the estimation, observe the following constraints:
```

> - Use the `START_TIME` parameter to specify the time point at which the estimation starts, in the format of "2006-01-02 15:04:05". The default estimation end time is the current time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `START_TIME` parameter to specify the time point at which the estimation starts, in the format of `2006-01-02 15:04:05`. The default estimation end time is the current time.
```

- After specifying the `START_TIME` parameter, you can use the `END_TIME` parameter to specify the estimation end time, or use the `DURATION` parameter to specify the estimation time window from `START_TIME`.
- The time window ranges from 10 minutes to 24 hours.
- In the specified time window, if the CPU utilization of TiDB and TiKV is too low, you cannot estimate the capacity.

### Estimate capacity based on hardware deployment

> This approach is mainly based on the current cluster configuration, combined with the empirical values observed for different workloads for estimation. Because different types of workloads require different ratios of hardware, the output capacity of the same configuration of hardware might be different. The `WORKLOAD` parameter here accepts the following different workload types. The default value is `TPCC`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method mainly estimates capacity based on the current cluster configuration, combined with the empirical values observed for different workloads. Because different types of workloads require different ratios of hardware, the output capacity of the same configuration of hardware might be different. The `WORKLOAD` parameter here accepts the following different workload types. The default value is `TPCC`.
```

> This approach is mainly based on the current cluster configuration, combined with the empirical values observed for different workloads for estimation. Because different types of workloads require different ratios of hardware, the output capacity of the same configuration of hardware might be different. The `WORKLOAD` parameter here provides the following different workload types. The default value is `TPCC`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This approach is mainly based on the current cluster configuration, combined with the empirical values observed for different workloads for estimation. Because different types of workloads require different ratios of hardware, the output capacity of the same configuration of hardware might be different. The `WORKLOAD` parameter here accepts the following different workload types. The default value is `TPCC`.
```

> - `tpcc`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to TPC-C.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `tpcc`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `TPC-C`.
```

> - `tpcc`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `TPC-C`.
> - `oltp_write_only`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_write_only`.
> - `oltp_read_write`: applies to workloads with even data read and write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_read_write`.
> - `oltp_read_only`: applies to workloads with heavy data read. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_read_only`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `TPCC`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `TPC-C`.
- `OLTP_WRITE_ONLY`: applies to workloads with heavy data write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_write_only`.
- `OLTP_READ_WRITE`: applies to workloads with even data read and write. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_read_write`.
- `OLTP_READ_ONLY`: applies to workloads with heavy data read. It is estimated based on a workload model similar to `sysbench oltp_read_only`.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The RU capacity of a cluster varies with the topology of the cluster and the hardware and software configuration of each component. The actual RU that each cluster can consume is also related to the actual workload. The estimated value estimated based on hardware deployment is for reference only and might differ from the actual maximum value. It is recommended to [estimate capacity based on actual workload](#estimate-capacity-based-on-actual-workload).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> The RU capacity of a cluster varies with the topology of the cluster and the hardware and software configuration of each component. The actual RU that each cluster can consume is also related to the actual workload. The [estimate capacity based on actual workload](#Estimate capacity based on actual workload) is for reference only and might differ from the actual maximum value. It is recommended to [estimate capacity based on hardware deployment](# Estimate capacity based on hardware deployment).
```

Author: 这个是链接，有特定格式要求。保留原来格式即可。

> > The RU capacity of a cluster varies with the topology of the cluster and the hardware and software configuration of each component. The actual RU that each cluster can consume is also related to the actual workload. The estimated value estimated based on hardware deployment is for reference only and might differ from the actual maximum value. It is recommended to [estimate capacity based on actual workload](#estimate-capacity-based-on-actual-workload).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The RU capacity of a cluster varies with the topology of the cluster and the hardware and software configuration of each component. The actual RU that each cluster can produce is also related to the actual workload. The estimated value based on hardware deployment is for reference only and might differ from the actual maximum value. It is recommended to [estimate capacity based on actual workload](#estimate-capacity-based-on-actual-workload).
```

## Examples

Specify the start time `START_TIME` and the time window `DURATION` to view the RU capacity according to the actual workload.

```sql
CALIBRATE RESOURCE START_TIME '2023-04-18 08:00:00' DURATION '20m';
+-------+
| QUOTA |
+-------+
| 27969 |
+-------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

Specify the start time `START_TIME` and the end time `END_TIME` to view the RU capacity according to the actual workload.

```sql
CALIBRATE RESOURCE START_TIME '2023-04-18 08:00:00' END_TIME '2023-04-18 08:20:00';
+-------+
| QUOTA |
+-------+
| 27969 |
+-------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

> When the time window range `DURATION` does not fall between 10 minutes and 24 hours, an alert occurs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the time window range `DURATION` does not fall between 10 minutes and 24 hours, an error occurs.
```

```sql
CALIBRATE RESOURCE START_TIME '2023-04-18 08:00:00' DURATION '25h';
ERROR 1105 (HY000): the duration of calibration is too long, which could lead to inaccurate output. Please make the duration between 10m0s and 24h0m0s
CALIBRATE RESOURCE START_TIME '2023-04-18 08:00:00' DURATION '9m';
ERROR 1105 (HY000): the duration of calibration is too short, which could lead to inaccurate output. Please make the duration between 10m0s and 24h0m0s
```

> When the workload within the time window is too low, an alert occurs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the workload within the time window is too low, an error occurs.
```
